NARZĘDZIA SUKCESU THE LOGOTYPE FONT

This font sets a logotype on the brand's name spontaneously while typing.
It is part of a broader identity work inspired by Chevrolet Nova's
speedometer designs of the late '60s. This bit of the work is made open
as a documentation on still sparse TrueType AAT/OTL font development.


EMPIRE'S CUSTOM REVIVAL

Type used is a custom interpretation of the Empire typeface, originally
designed by Morris Fuller Benton and released under American Type
Founders in 1937. Found on various facsimiles, all needed letterforms
were translated by hand into tight and tidy TrueType curves fitting well
Empire's formal simplicity.


FONT MECHANICS

Typesetting process responds and adapts to each successively typed
letter in the "Narzędzia Sukcesu" input stream. If you miss or mismatch
any letter in the stream, the process stops in place.

Internally these are state machines with states chained across the
entire stream on the AAT side, or appropriately long chaining contextual
lookups on the OTL side. In an OTL environment, enclosing quotation
marks in the input stream are required; with AAT their role is provided
automatically if you don't type them explicitly.


DEVELOPMENT

The font is a TrueType font flavored with both Apple Advanced Typography
and OpenType Layout features, and is built from scratch with the OS X
Font Tools with a supplement of Adobe's FDK for OpenType.

Individual font tables are either edited directly in their respective
dumps, or are written as dedicated input files. Dumps are read by the
Font Tools; the input files by either Font Tools or FDK, depending on
the font technology used. Few tables that the tools don't read are
prepared as generic hex data in the Font Tools syntax. Font outlines,
drawn in advance in a font editor, are also stored as such data. Those
source files are all consecutively compiled into a blank font, Null the
TrueType font in particular.


COPYRIGHT & TRADEMARK NOTICE

This work is made open, but its use, as well as use of the logotype
itself, is restricted by copyright and trademark laws. Copyright for all
the work is held by Grzegorz Rolek, 2012. The sole trademark owner is
Marek Błaszk, Narzędzia Sukcesu.
